[Excel] (Custom functions) Update low engagement articles (#5364)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/custom-functions-naming.md

---
title: Naming and localization for custom functions in Excel
description: Learn requirements for names of Excel custom functions and how to localize custom functions.
ms.date: 10/22/2025
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Custom functions naming and localization

This article lists guidelines and best practices for naming custom functions and shows how to localize them.

## Custom functions naming guidelines

A custom function is identified by an `id` and a `name` in the JSON metadata.

- `id`: Unique identifier used in code.
- `name`: Display name shown to users. It can be localized.

[!include[Excel custom functions note](../includes/excel-custom-functions-note.md)]

> A function `name` can differ from the `id` for localization. If you don't need localization, using the same value is recommended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A function `name` can differ from the `id` for localization. If you don't need localization, it's best to use the same value for both.
```

A function's `name` and `id` share some similar rules.

- Both must start with a letter and be at least three characters.
- `id`: Only A–Z, 0–9, underscore, and period characters are allowed.
- `name`: Any Unicode alphabetic characters, underscore, and period characters are allowed.

Excel shows built‑in function names in uppercase letters (such as `SUM`). Using uppercase helps your custom functions fit in.

Avoid names that match:

- A cell reference (A1 to XFD1048576 or R1C1 to R1048576C16384).
- An Excel 4.0 Macro Function (such as `RUN`, `ECHO`). For a full list of these functions, see [this Excel Macro Functions Reference document](https://www.myonlinetraininghub.com/cdn/files/Excel%204.0%20Macro%20Functions%20Reference.pdf).

## Naming conflicts

If your function `name` conflicts with one from another add‑in, Excel shows the **#REF!** error.

> Fix conflicts by renaming your function or uninstalling the other add‑in. For testing in multiple environments, use a short namespace prefix (such as `ADDINNAME_FUNCTIONNAME`).

Author: ```suggestion
Fix conflicts by renaming your function or uninstalling the other add-in. For testing in multiple environments, use a short namespace prefix (such as `ADDINNAME_FUNCTIONNAME`).
```

## Best practices

- Prefer extra function arguments over multiple near-duplicate function names. (`GETNAME(firstName, middleName, lastName)` is more efficient than `GETFIRSTNAME`, `GETMIDDLENAME   `, and `GETLASTNAME`).

> - Avoid unclear abbreviations (`INCREASETIME` is clearer than `INC`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid abbreviations that aren’t clear. For example, INCREASETIME is easier to understand than INC.
```

> - Use action verbs (`GETZIPCODE` not just `ZIPCODE`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Choose action verbs for function names. Use GETZIPCODE instead of just ZIPCODE.
```

> - Be consistent: Use the same verb for similar actions (`DELETEZIPCODE` and `DELETEADDRESS`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Be consistent. Use the same verb for similar actions, such as DELETEZIPCODE and DELETEADDRESS.
```

> - Consider adding `STREAM` or a note in the description for streaming functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For streaming functions, add `STREAM` to the name or include a note in the description.
```

[!include[manifest guidance](../includes/manifest-guidance.md)]

## Naming constraints quick reference

| Guideline | `id` | `name` | Notes |
|--------|------|-------|-------|
| Allowed characters | A–Z 0–9 `_` `.` | Unicode alphabetic characters `_` `.` | Keep `id` simple. Localize `name`. |
| Must start with a letter | Yes | Yes | Avoids cell reference confusion. |
| Minimum length | 3 | 3 | Short names reduce clarity. |
| Capitalization | All uppercase recommended | All uppercase recommended | Matches Excel style. |
| Localizable | No | Yes | Keep `id` stable. Localize `name` as needed. |
| Can mimic cell address | No | No | Prevent address parsing errors. |
| Reserved macro names | Disallowed | Disallowed | Some examples: `RUN`, `ECHO`. |

> ### Recommended namespace pattern

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Consider moving this suggestion to the Best Practices section.

> For many functions, add a short vendor prefix such as `CONTOSO_GETPRICE` or `CONTOSO_TAX_CALC` to reduce conflicts with other add-ins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Localize custom functions

> You can localize both your add-in and your custom function names. Add localized function names in JSON and locale overrides in the add-in only manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can localize both your add-in and your custom function names. Add localized function names in your JSON file and set locale overrides in the add-in only manifest.
```

---
title: Naming and localization for custom functions in Excel
description: Learn requirements for names of Excel custom functions and how to localize custom functions.
ms.date: 09/22/2025
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Custom functions naming and localization

> This article lists simple rules and tips for naming custom functions and shows how to localize them.

Reviewer 2: This comes down to SEO, but if simple rules is more searched than guidelines, and tips more than best practices, it makes sense.

A function `name` can differ from the `id` for localization. If you don't need localization, using the same value is recommended.

A function's `name` and `id` share some similar rules.

- Both must start with a letter and be at least three characters.
- `id`: Only A–Z, 0–9, underscore, and period characters allowed.
- `name`: Any Unicode letters, underscore, and period characters allowed.

Excel shows built‑in function names in uppercase letters (such as `SUM`). Using uppercase helps your custom functions fit in.

Avoid names that match:

- A cell reference (A1 to XFD1048576 or R1C1 style).
- An Excel 4.0 Macro Function (such as `RUN`, `ECHO`). For a full list of these functions, see [this Excel Macro Functions Reference document](https://www.myonlinetraininghub.com/cdn/files/Excel%204.0%20Macro%20Functions%20Reference.pdf).

## Naming conflicts

If your function `name` conflicts with one from another add‑in, Excel shows the **#REF!** error.

Fix conflicts by renaming your function or uninstalling the other add‑in. For testing in multiple environments, use a short namespace prefix (such as `ACME_FUNCTIONNAME`).

## Best practices

> - Prefer extra function arguments over multiple near-duplicate function names.

Reviewer 2: The original needed a better explanation, and it would be good to show a contrasting sample here like with the others.

Author: I added an example. Let me know what you think of it.

- Avoid unclear abbreviations (`INCREASETIME` is clearer than `INC`).
- Use action verbs (`GETZIPCODE` not just `ZIPCODE`).

> - Be consistent: Use the same verb for similar actions (`DELETEZIPCODE`, `DELETEADDRESS`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Be consistent: Use the same verb for similar actions (`DELETEZIPCODE` and `DELETEADDRESS`).
```

- Consider adding `STREAM` or a note in the description for streaming functions.

[!include[manifest guidance](../includes/manifest-guidance.md)]

## Naming constraints quick reference

| Aspect | `id` | `name` | Notes |
|--------|------|-------|-------|

> | Allowed characters | A–Z 0–9 `_` `.` | Unicode letters `_` `.` | Keep `id` simple. Localize `name`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Allowed characters | A–Z 0–9 `_` `.` | Unicode alphabetic characters `_` `.` | Keep `id` simple. Localize `name`. |
```

| Reserved macro names | Disallowed | Disallowed | Some examples: `RUN`, `ECHO`. |

### Invalid `id` and `name` examples

| `id` | `name` | Reason |
|------|--------|--------|
| `1ADD` | `1ADD` | Starts with digit. |
| `A` | `A` | Too short (less than 3 characters). |
| `SUM` | `SUM` | Built‑in Excel formula name. |
| `MÜLTIPLY` | `MÜLTIPLY` | Non-ASCII letter in `id`. |
| `GET-VALUE` | `GET-VALUE` | Hyphen not allowed. Use underscore instead. |
| `RUN` | `RUN` | Reserved macro name. |
| `A1R1` | `A1R1` | Looks like a cell reference. |

### Recommended namespace pattern

For many functions, add a short vendor prefix such as `CONTOSO_GETPRICE` or `CONTOSO_TAX_CALC` to reduce conflicts with other add-ins.

## Localize custom functions

You can localize both your add-in and your custom function names. Add localized function names in JSON and locale overrides in the add-in only manifest.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Autogenerated metadata doesn't work for localization so you need to update the JSON file manually. To learn how to do this, see [Manually create JSON metadata for custom functions](custom-functions-json.md).

### Localize function names

> Create one JSON metadata file per language. In each, localize `name` and `description`. The default English file is **functions.json**. Add locale tags to new files, like **functions-de.json**.

Author: Reverted to original.

> Excel localizes `name` and `description`. The `id` stays fixed and should not change once it's set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Excel only localizes `name` and `description`. The `id` is not localized and shouldn't be changed once it's set.
```

> To localize your custom functions, create a new JSON metadata file for each language. In each language JSON file, add `name` and `description` properties in the target language. The default file for English is named **functions.json**. Use the locale in the filename for each additional JSON file, such as **functions-de.json** to help identify them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To localize your custom functions, create a separate JSON metadata file for each language. In each file, add the `name` and `description` properties in the target language. Use **functions.json** for English and include the locale in the filename for other languages, such as **functions-de.json** for German.
```

> Excel only localizes `name` and `description`. The `id` is not localized and shouldn't be changed once it's set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Excel only localizes the `name` and `description` properties. The `id` is not localized and should remain unchanged after it's set.
```

>             "name": "zwei",

Reviewer 2: Probably should be uppercase
